==========
D:YAML 0.1
==========

------------
Introduction 
------------

D:YAML is an open source YAML parser library for the D programming language.
It is 
(`almost <https://github.com/kiith-sa/D-YAML/wiki/Differences-between-D:YAML-and-the-YAML-specification>`_) 
compliant to the YAML 1.1 specification. Much of D:YAML code is based on 
`PyYAML <http://www.pyyaml.org>`_ created by Kirill Simonov. D:YAML has no 
external dependencies, all it needs is a D compiler and Phobos (standard 
library). It is written in D2 and there are no plans for D1 or Tango support.

At the moment, D:YAML can only read, not write YAML files. This will change in
the following releases. D:YAML is designed to be as easy to use as possible while
supporting the full feature set of YAML. To start using it in your project,
see the 
`Getting Started <https://github.com/kiith-sa/D-YAML/wiki/Getting-Started>`_ 
tutorial.
 
D:YAML is still a work in progress. Its API is still not stable and there might 
be compatibility breaking changes. For instance, currently some D:YAML API 
functions depend on the ``std.stream`` module in Phobos. This module is expected 
to be rewritten in future and D:YAML will change accordingly.


--------
Features
--------

* Easy to use, high-level API and detailed debugging messages.
* Detailed API documentation and tutorials.
* No external dependencies.
* Supports all YAML 1.1 constructs. All examples from the YAML 1.1 specification
  are parsed correctly.
* Read from YAML files as well as from memory or user defined streams.
* UTF-8, UTF-16 and UTF-32 encodings are supported, both big and little endian 
  (plain ASCII also works as it is a subset of UTF-8).
* Support for both block (Python-like, based on indentation) and flow 
  (JSON-like, based on bracing) constructs.
* Support for YAML anchors and aliases.
* Support for default values in mappings.
* Support for custom tags (data types), and implicit tag resolution for custom 
  tags.
* All tags (data types) described at http://yaml.org/type/ are supported, with 
  the exception of ``tag:yaml.org,2002:yaml``, which is used to represent YAML
  code in YAML.
* Cannot write YAML at the moment. This will change in the future.
* There is no support for recursive data structures. 
  There are no plans to implement this at the moment.


-------------------
Directory structure
-------------------

===============  ======================================================================
Directory        Contents
===============  ======================================================================
``./``           This README file, utility scripts, D:YAML sources outside any packages.
``./doc``        Documentation.
``./docsrc``     Documentation sources.
``./dyaml``      D:YAML source code.
``./examples/``  Example D:YAML code.
``./test``       Unittest code and inputs.
===============  ======================================================================


-----------------------
Installing and tutorial
-----------------------

See the 
`Getting Started <https://github.com/kiith-sa/D-YAML/wiki/Getting-Started>`_ 
tutorial and other tutorials that can be found at the 
`GitHub wiki <https://github.com/kiith-sa/D-YAML/wiki>`_
and in the ``doc/html/tutorials/`` directory in the package.


-------
License
-------

D:YAML is released under the terms of the 
`Boost Software License 1.0 <http://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt>`_.
This license allows you to use the source code in your own projects, open source
or proprietary, and to modify it to suit your needs. However, in source 
distributions, you have to preserve the license headers in the source code and 
the accompanying license file.

Full text of the license can be found in file ``LICENSE_1_0.txt`` and is also
displayed here::

    Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
    obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
    this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
    execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
    Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
    do so, all subject to the following:

    The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
    the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
    must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
    all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
    works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
    a source language processor.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
    SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
    FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
    ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


-------
Credits
-------

D:YAML was created by Ferdinand Majerech aka Kiith-Sa kiithsacmp[AT]gmail.com .

Parts of code based on `PyYAML <http://www.pyyaml.org>`_ created by Kirill Simonov.

D:YAML uses a modified version of the 
`CDC build script <http://www.dsource.org/projects/cdc>`_.

D:YAML was created using Vim and DMD on Debian and Ubuntu Linux as a YAML parsing
library for the `D programming language <http://www.d-programming-language.org>`_.
